MERIDIAN WORKS LEAVE AND ABSENCE POLICY
Effective January 2025 | People & Culture

1. ANNUAL LEAVE
All full-time employees are entitled to 20 working days of annual leave per calendar year. Leave accrues at 1.67 days per month. Employees on probation accrue leave but may not take it until probation is successfully completed, except in exceptional circumstances approved by People & Culture.

2. LEAVE CARRY-OVER
A maximum of 5 unused leave days may be carried over to the following year. Carried-over days must be used by 31 March or they are forfeited. Exceptions require written approval from the Chief People Officer.

3. REQUESTING LEAVE
Leave requests must be submitted at least 5 working days in advance for absences of 3 days or fewer. For absences longer than 3 days, at least 10 working days notice is required. All leave is requested via the HR portal. Approval is at the team lead's discretion, taking into account team capacity.

4. SICK LEAVE
Employees are entitled to 10 days of paid sick leave per calendar year. Absences of 3 or more consecutive days require a medical certificate. Sick leave beyond 10 days in a calendar year is unpaid unless covered by a medical plan. Patterns of frequent short-term absences may trigger a welfare check with People & Culture.

5. MATERNITY LEAVE
Female employees who have completed 6 months of continuous service are entitled to 16 weeks of paid maternity leave. This may begin up to 4 weeks before the expected due date. An additional 4 weeks of unpaid maternity leave may be requested.

6. PATERNITY LEAVE
Male employees and partners are entitled to 2 weeks of paid paternity leave within 4 weeks of the birth or adoption of a child. This applies after 6 months of continuous service.

7. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Employees are entitled to 5 days paid bereavement leave for the death of an immediate family member (spouse, child, parent, sibling). 2 days are granted for extended family members. Additional unpaid leave may be requested at the discretion of People & Culture.

8. UNPAID LEAVE
Unpaid leave may be granted at the discretion of the team lead and People & Culture for circumstances not covered by other leave types. Requests must be submitted in writing with reasons.

9. PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
All Nigerian federal public holidays are observed. Employees required to work on a public holiday will receive a day off in lieu within 30 days.

10. UNAUTHORISED ABSENCE
Absence without prior approval or notification within 2 hours of the start of the working day is considered unauthorised. Three instances of unauthorised absence in a rolling 12-month period may result in disciplinary action.